Source URL: https://www.indiapost.gov.in/mailproducts/premiumservices

India Post
भारत सरकार
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
Accessibility Links
Open login menu
Mail Products
Overview
Tariff Structure
Discount Structure
Transit Norms Between Cities
Domestic Speed Post Document
The Department of Posts introduced Speed Post on 1st August 1986 to provide fast and reliable delivery of letters across the country. Launched as part of India Post’s modernization efforts, the service was designed to ensure time-bound, efficient, and secure mail delivery. Over the years, Speed Post has emerged as one of the most popular and trusted mail services in India, standing strong against private courier companies.
It is an affordable service and delivers across the country @
INR 47.00
(GST extra as applicable) and Local @
INR 19.00
(GST extra as applicable) for consignments up to 50 grams. Speed Post has by far the widest network delivering to every address in the country.
Since its inception, Speed Post has continued to evolve to meet changing customer needs. To further strengthen its position as the preferred delivery service in the country, it has now been upgraded with the following new features aimed at enhancing reliability, security, and customer convenience:
OTP-based secure delivery
Online payment facility
SMS-based delivery notifications
Convenient online booking services
Real-time delivery updates
Registration facility for users
Specifications
Maximum Weight:
Upto 500 grams
Dimensions:
The size of an item for Speed Post document shall not exceed the dimension of 420 mm, 297 mm and 24 mm in respect of length, breadth and thickness, respectively. The pick-up facility, Proof of Delivery, Insurance, Registration, OTP based delivery and other Value-Added Services as specified by administrative instructions from time to time, shall be available for Speed Post item on payment of fees specified by administrative instructions from time to time. The item posted under the Speed Post shall generally be address specific that is it shall be delivered at the given address, unless otherwise specified.
Key Features
Insurance
Upto INR 5.00 lakh
24 hours booking facility
Available in selected offices in major cities. Includes Internet-based Track and Trace system & Delivery information on SMS.
Free pick-up
Corporate and bulk customers may avail free collection from their premises through on-call or regular collection service.
Book Now Pay Later
No upfront payment required. Corporate and contract customers may avail credit facility.
Volume based discounts
Huge discounts for corporate and other regular customers.
Cash on Delivery
Cash on delivery service for e-commerce and online sellers.
Compensation
Delay - Speed Post charges. Loss of article, pilferage or damage - Double the Speed Post charges or INR 1000 whichever is less.